This text was made by collecting Nick Rose posts on https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KpuKu3F0BvY

Dirt and air Minute 2:06:36

Not understanding the concept of momentum, the producer asserts that the foil flap at the front of the rover is flung up by air as it drives. Whether it is wilful ignorance or deception, the producer should understand that as a flap, it is not secured firmly to the body of the vehicle and therefore can move. When the rover is going over a bump, the flap first moves with the rest of the vehicle in the upward direction. Once the vehicle is over the bump and begins to fall, the momentum of the flap is still in the upward direction. Since the flap is free to move, it will continue to do so in the upward direction. This flapping movement is merely a consequence of the rover moving over bumps and the flap continuing to move by its momentum. It is similar to what happens when astronauts hop and the equipment over their necks move in the opposite direction – their momentum continues to move in a direction opposite to them. It is difficult for to comprehend that anyone would have to explain that.

Then at 2:07:00 he shows another flap moving. However, this is such a closeup of the flap, that most of it is obscured. How can a conclusion be made about why the flap moving, when half of it is not shown? To add to how ridiculous this is, you can then see the hand of the astronaut cleaning the area coming in and out of the picture. The flap does move up slightly at first, but then it looks like it is being squashed as in bends in the middle. A breeze would not make it bend like that. Probably what is happing is as the astronaut is reaching in to clean the area (you can see the brush is moving more and more to the left of screen), he is squashing the flap with his legs or body out of the image as he reaches across. Once you consider this possibility, it is obvious that this is what is happening. This exemplifies why conclusions based on video where you cannot see the whole pictures should never be used. 

Then there is the dust that moves when the astronaut closes a metal flap on the rover. 2:07:19. A puff of dust goes upward in the corner where the flap hits the rover. Obviously, this could be due to vibration, but the producer excludes this by saying that the dust on the rest of the equipment should move due to vibrations. How does this make any sense? The dust moves exactly where the flap makes contact with the rover. It would not vibrate enough to move dust elsewhere. In fact, a large, wide flap closing quickly like that would blow a puff of air in front of it and blow off dust in front of the flap. This doesn’t occur. It doesn’t occur because they are in a vacuum. Somehow, the producer tries to twist the fact that there is no movement of dust in front of the flap, where you would expect air would gush forward when it closes, to imply it proves they are in air! 

Given the blatant deception attempted by the producer, how anyone takes any of the documentary seriously is beyond understanding.


Flag waving 2:03:42
The producer begins by presenting a MythBusters segment where they test a flag in a vacuum. It is suspicious that the producer fails to describe one important result of this experiment. In a vacuum, a flag takes much longer to stop if it moved, and flaps violently compared to on Earth. This is because in a vacuum, there is no atmospheric pressure to slow down the flags movement and it flaps even with the slightest touch and vigorously if the pole is twisted. In the Apollo videos, the flag always exhibits this behaviour. Unless they filmed in a vacuum chamber, how did NASA replicate these distinctive movements? The producer wilfully ignores this evidence, and instead tries to find instances where the flag moves when no one is touching it as proof there is air. Despite hours of footage showing the flag, he found only 3 instances and each can be explained without resorting to the ridiculous conclusion that the videos were taken on Earth. He even states ‘at least 3 instances’ as if there are more that he just decided not to show!
At 2:05:06, footage is shown of an astronaut walking by a flag. The footage is such that it is hard to judge how far he was from the flag and whether he had touched it. The producer uses triangulation to demonstrate that the astronaut was well away from the flag. Assuming such simple triangulation is accurate (camera focal lengths and lenses do not work linearly like this), then how does air explain the movement? Does the producer expect us to believe that the astronaut being what looks like at least 2 feet away can produce so much wind by hopping by that it moves the flag even before he passes it? They demonstrate that electrostatic force needs to be close to the flag to make it move, but do not demonstrate whether displacement of air can make the flag move. Why? You cannot dismiss one possibility by testing it, and then assume the other possibility is true without testing it. It would have been easy to set up a replica flag, and have someone in a hazmat suit or similar hop buy and see if the flag moves. As a result of his attempt to debunk the astronaut touching it by asserting the astronaut was well away from the flag, he debunks the theory that air causes the movement. 
If we agree the astronaut was 2 feet away, a likely cause could be that the astronaut kicked dirt or a rock that hit the pole. Many images of astronauts hopping show dirt being kicked up, and just the tiniest knock would cause the flag to move in a vacuum. This would explain why the flag begins to move before the astronaut moves by. Unfortunately, we cannot see the astronauts’ feet. It is likely however that the astronaut was closer to the flag that predicted, but even so, touching, electrostatic forces or displacement of air could not possibly cause the flag to move. So that leaves the only conclusion that something happens out of frame to move the flag. But displacement of air does not explain it.
At 2:07:34 we see some subtle flag movement during a flag solute in Apollo 16. This appears even when the astronauts are quite far away from the flag. The footage you see is not the original footage. It has been restored, probably using AI to fill in images between frames to give the footage a smoother look. If you look at the original footage, it of poor quality, grainy and distorts everything, including the astronauts. The flag, as with the rest of the images quiver, jump and vibrate due to the poor quality. Comparing the restoration next to the original, I believe the smoothing program has misinterpreted the quivers and vibrations as movement. Unlike the previous example, the astronauts are nowhere near the flag when it moves. However, they are visually directly behind it and in the same frame as the flag. This is no coincidence as the AI program would be trying to smooth all movements withing the frame and since they are in the same frame, the flag is mistakenly made to move. When the astronauts are not in the same frame as the flag, the AI program is not confused and keeps the flag still. Just to prove the point, in the original, the flag pole moves from side to side as well due to the distortion. In any case, the producer breaks his own rule in not looking at the original footage, but at restored footage, meaning we can dismiss the flag movement as an artifact of the restoration.
At 2:08:35, the flag is seen to leave and enter the frame on the right, 15 minutes after the astronauts go into the LM. The reason for this is simple - air being vented out of the LM as the astronauts are preparing for the next moon walk. The producer dismisses this, even though, the flag in right in front of the door and even though, it occurs at the same time as the venting. He argues the air would disperse, but there is no justification for this statement. In a vacuum, air being vented out would rush horizontally across the surface for a considerable distance as there is no air pressure outside to slow or stop it or disperse it. The venting occurs from a hatch directly in front of the flag. Given that the air would rush across and there is a vacuum this would be enough to move it. We only see it move in one direction because it is partly hidden. In any case, the flag could rebound towards the LM as the air gushes by. How can the producer imply that movement of a flag, occurring after 15 minutes of remaining still, and occurring exactly at the time and position of venting is just a coincidence?
In conclusion, producer deliberately ignores the characteristic movements of the flag which prove they are in a vacuum, and asserts air caused them to move on 3 occasions when clearly, this is not the explanation.


Camera still works even with radiation and temperature changes Minutes 2:12:00

The producer asks the question as to how the camera can work in extremes of radiation and temperature. I am no expert in radiation and temperate variations in space, unlike the producer who feels he is. However, my research has revealed the following, and anyone is free to research this to decide if the conclusions are valid. Needless to say that, common sense tells us that if we reject pictures from the moon because of the radiation and temperature changes the film experienced, then, we must reject all pictures taken from space given the similar exposures to radiation and temperature changes. Why did the producer not clarify this observation – it is kind of obvious.

The comparison to Chernobyl and the moon radiation is not appropriate. Chernobyl had much stronger radiation, and of different types, than what is found on the moon. 

The comparison to an x-ray machine is again not appropriate for the same reasons. It is around 1600 times the strength of x-rays on the moon. The tests exposed the film to X-rays directly, without any protection, whereas the Apollo films were kept for almost all the journey inside shielded canisters, which in turn were protected by the shielding provided by the Apollo spacecraft in the Command Module and in the Lunar Module. Even during the moonwalks, the film was shielded by the metal of their Hasselblad magazine.

The Skylab findings refer to long periods of exposure in space. Skylab had humans on board months at a time and it is in this context that radiation could affect cameras.

Despite what the producer claims, there are many examples of the exact radiation damage the producer claims should have occurred. In many cases it is subtle, but many photos experienced the clouding and spots referred to in the documentary.

The producer goes to great lengths to describe how the camera was in the shade for over 30 minutes and would have seized up. He uses the example of a lunar rover which must avoid spending time in the shade because after 10 minutes it can seize up. Firstly, a lunar rover is much more complex than a camera. Secondly, the recommendation refers to shaded areas that have not had direct light for perhaps hours or days. The camera on the Apollo lander still may have had some heat radiating from the ground, and more importantly, the lunar surface reflects around 10% of its light. As seen in the pictures of Buzz Aldrin, the camera was still exposed to light and by extension, heat, unlike a rover which would encounter areas deep in shade where reflected light is not able to reach it. This, together with the fact that the vacuum of space acts as an insulator means it would not reach the low temperatures implied in the documentary. Therefore, it is not appropriate to use the example of the rover, a highly complex piece of hardware, with the much simpler mechanisms of a camera. 

Finally, Lunar photography didn’t use ordinary film, but a special 70 mm Kodak film engineered specifically for high-altitude reconnaissance applications, in which it had to deal with air temperatures as low as -40°C (104°F). This film had a custom-made thin polyester base (Estar), with a melting point of 254°C (490°F), and used an Ektachrome emulsion capable of providing adequate results over a wide temperature range.


Hotspots in pictures 2:32:00
This section is where the producer takes that extra step, and deliberately shows poor quality copies to the viewer to prove that there is hot spotting i.e., evidence spotlights were used on set. What he calls hot spots, is the effect of undisturbed soil having a lighter copy than soil that is disturbed, undulated and/or has a large number of rocks. The dozen or so photos he used out of hundreds were specifically chosen so that when converted to a poor-quality copy, they give the illusion of hot spotting. Of course, the hundreds of other photos without this effect are not show, implying that spotlights were used for a few photos??
I have looked at the original photographs of those shown with a photograph number, and each one is a low-quality copy, with contrast much stronger than the original. As an example, AS11-40-5851 in the original form shows uniform lighting. An interesting phenomenon here is that smooth areas of dirt look lighter, whilst areas which have aggregation of pebbles and rocks look darker. In this photo, the foreground has an uneven patch of light coloured smooth dirt and within it, aggregations of rocks and pebbles with patches of darker dirt. The left side of the pictures has again aggregation of rocks and looks darker in colour than the right side which has patches of light colour again. The original of this picture, and others, demonstrate the reason why this ‘effect’ occurs in some pictures, particularly when you reduce the quality. The smoothness of the dust affects its colour. 
AS12-47-6899 (mistakenly AS12-46-6813HR) 2:40:14 is another example of this effect, and it is much clearer. This is a deliberate poor copy and has been mislabelled on purpose so that the viewer cannot compare. What you can see is that where the copy makes it look like there is a hotspot, it is just lighter terrain because of the smoothness of the ground that the astronaut is standing on. The other darker areas are because the dirt has been dug up by the astronaut and walked on so has been churned, and there are undulations and holes in the ground. The lighter coloured area has darker areas within it due to the dirt having been disturbed, proving that the effect has got nothing to do with uneven lighting. There is no doubt that the copy has had it contrast manipulated, and its quality reduced so it is not obvious that the difference in colour is due to the fact that the dirt the astronaut is standing on has not been dug up, but the other areas have. 
AS11-40-5903 has evidence of uneven light in the original although, the version shown has again a poor-quality copy of the original. The dirt just behind him (Buzz) looks lighter and more reflective. There is no doubt that disturbance on the ground in front of him makes the dirt look darker. In this photo, all the areas with footprints look darker due to the ground being disturbed. The lighter areas look incredibly smooth. The suggestion is that the exhaust blew off a top layer of dust and smoothed it out, and whilst disturbances in the ground generally make it look darker, perhaps the blowing off of dust has a different effect because rocks sitting on the surface are blown away leaving completely smooth ground. Again, I believe the dark and light areas represents different soil states. If there was a spotlight, then, there would be an extra shadow but there isn't.
AS12-49-7278HR. 2:41:40 Is again, a poor-quality copy and, whilst the helmet reflection does show some non-uniform lighting, it is much more subtle in the original, but I am not convinced you can make an assessment of hot spotting from a curved, reflective surface. Surely this would make the light reflect more strongly in some areas than others? 
At 2:39:20 he shows the effect of hot spotting on the beach and states that it is like a photo from Apollo. The one on the beach is much more obvious but let us assume they are implying NASA had a bigger light. What is more interesting, is the reflection in the visor. In the fake, you can see a cameraman, and a soundman. In the Apollo, you can see the lunar module, the other astronaut, flag and the rest of the moon. How did they do that?
At 2:35:07, he compares the effect of light on the moon photo to a photo taken on Earth, stating the light is distributed uniformly on Earth, but not in the moon photo. To me, it looks like there is much more light in the horizon, compared to the ground closest to the camera. Probably because the sun is reflecting the sand differently between the two areas. If you can see light variations on Earth, then, why are subtle variations on the moon for a handful of photos so unusual? The other notable difference between the picture of the sand taken on Earth is on how smooth it all is. Why did he choose a totally smooth surface? Because differences in the texture of the sand, and any rocks, holes or undulations would reflect the light differently and show similar effects to what was found on the moon. Even then, the sand looks brighter in the distance than in the foreground. Spot light anyone? 
In conclusion the producer has deliberately used low quality copies to make it look like there is hot spotting. Why he did not show the original goes to his intent of deception. Anyone can look this up for themselves and compare the versions he showed with the original. Variations in the colour of the lunar dirt, due to presence of disturbances such as rocks, undulations and footprints makes the dirt look darker, whilst smoother surfaces look lighter. Take a poor-quality copy, manipulate the contrast, be selective and only find those where the lighter colour is in the foreground and you have yourself hot spotting and is enough to fool his photographer friends, inspiring them to do a lot of handwaving in agreement.


Shadows are not parallel 2:49:00

This section demonstrates how arguments can be manipulated to tell a false story. Here, the producer uses the fact that one pictures does not show parallel shadows and appears to converge to a point just left of the screen. The implication here is that there was a spotlight causing the shadows to appear not to be parallel. The argument, they claim, that similar photos on Earth show shadows that are not parallel, is not valid because the shadows in the picture converge to the same point. They then dismiss the MythBusters episode where they reproduced the NASA photo exactly, by using sloping ground and a spotlight because, their argument is, that using a spotlight, and not the sun, simply confirms that an artificial light was used for the NASA photo. The producer states this is a major blunder. The only blunder is how much of a joke this documentary is.

Most of this segment is having his photographic buddies look at this one picture. There are dozens of pictures of shadows in the Apollo library and only one has shadows that converge to one point. Picking one photo, that by circumstance, has converging shadows is not evidence. It is selection bias. Especially when you consider that, depending on how you line up the shadows, they don't necessarily meet at the same point. There is a large degree of variability that can be applied to the tracing. The MythBusters, far from demonstrating a blunder, prove the exact point the producer was trying to make. That you can simulate shadows converging to a point by the slope of the ground. The fact that a spotlight was used is irrelevant because the spotlight was many meters away from the scene, and the shadows converged at a point metres in front of the spotlight. Furthermore, the producer claims that the shadows in the Apollo picture cannot be explained because the terrain looks flat. However, the terrain in the MythBusters picture has sloping terrain that looks flat. The flatness is an illusion in the Apollo picture as much as it is in the MythBusters picture.

The fact that there is one picture where shadows converge is a coincidence, as can be proven by the existence of only one such photo, and confirmation that you can simulate the same picture by adjusting the terrain on Earth. The fact that a spotlight was used is irrelevant, as the spotlight was in a different position to where the shadows converged. What was proven in the experiment is that shadows, that do not converge to the point of the light source is can be reproduced by sloping the ground, and that the ground nevertheless can look flat.

Backlight 3:00:00

The producer attempts to dismiss the backlighting phenomenon by going at lengths about luminosity and what happens on Earth. They dismiss the MythBusters episode by implying that the white shirt from one of the presenters is a possible reason for the extra light in the experiment, and I agree with this. However, there is this persistent attempt to dismiss the reflective properties of the moon’s surface by using observations from Earth. They even quote a NASA report that was written before anyone was on the moon that confirms the lunar surface is a poor reflector and one would expect that there would be no illumination in shadow areas. This begs the question which is deliberately avoided. Why would NASA use reflectors and such to illuminate parts of the set, when they themselves believed the lunar surface is a poor reflector? 

Nobody expected illumination of shadow areas given the reflectivity of the moon’s surface being 10-12% (not 8% as explained in the documentary). If we could show that this backlight phenomenon is a real phenomenon, then this confirms the moon landing pictures as genuine since NASA would have gone out of their way to avoid introducing extra light sources if it was a hoax. The case is settled by the Chinese lander and rover called Rabbit. The rover drove off the Chinese lander, turned around leaving wet looking tyre tracks on the lunar surface, and took a picture of the lander. What it demonstrated was that the areas behind the sun shadow area of the lander were lit up like a Christmas tree. In other words, areas which should have been completely dark according to the producer where bathed in light. These pictures were taken in 2014, 3 years before the documentary was made, meaning he did not include the most conclusive, independent evidence possible – pictures from an independent space agency that show the exact same phenomenon as what was observed during the first moonwalk. In fact, China is hardly a friendly nation to the US and would have no reason to doctor or fake images to be consistent with the Apollo pictures. 

The deception does not just stop there. They reference the NVIDIA experiment in which they deliberately misquote the results of the experiment by  asserting NVIDIA found the extra cause of reflective light causing Buzz to light up was Neil Armstrong’s white suite. The producer claims that the amount of light reflected by Neil would not be sufficient to light up the area to the degree seen in the picture. That is correct. However, that was not the main finding of the NVIDIA computer simulation.  NVIDIA demonstrated that by modelling the reflective properties of the moon dust with 10-12% reflectivity, the reflective light alone was enough to light up Buzz. Neil just increased this effect slightly. The purpose of the Neil observation was to identify an unknown bright source of light that hoaxers claimed was a studio reflector. NVIDIA, by simulating the position of the astronauts, identified the bright area to be Neil’s suit, and not some unknown studio reflector. The reflectivity of Neil’s suit added a little bit extra lighting to complete the backlight effect. Why did the documentary not explain this? The reason is obvious. He had no way of explaining the NVIDIA simulation demonstrating that the lunar surface reflection could light up Buzz. Instead he focused on the second, less significant part of the simulation.

The reflective lighting from the moon, confirmed by the Chinese lander pictures in 2014, is the reason there is blurring of the shadows behind the astronauts. The blurring is the result of the extra illumination coming at different angles.

== Conclusion ==

I have now debunked every single argument from this documentary, except the last about the press conference in which the Apollo astronauts, exhibiting stage fright, are presumed guilty of the ultimate deception because they were not high fiving each other and dancing several weeks after the moon landing which included weeks in quarantine. The producer deliberately fails to show the pictures when the astronauts were picked up after splashdown showing them practically doing just that – exactly the situation you would expect them to be smiling and ecstatic. All I will add to this is the case of Amanda Knox, an American tourist who was found guilty of murder, and then released after the real killer was identified. Amanda was in Italy, and what made the Italian lead detective convinced she was guilty? The way Amanda reacted after she found out her room mate was murdered was unusual. There are other cases just like this where we convince ourselves someone is guilty because we ‘think’ we know how we would react. 
